api-mssql-go-auth/README.md, before:

## Overview

This sample is an extension to the sample `api-mssql-go` providing a middleware to handle authentication, based on Open ID Connect, which can be configured using XSUAA or SAP IAS. Please refer to the [api-mssql-go](../api-mssql-go/README.md) for specifics. This example implementation is storing sessions using an in memory store which is meant for testing only. See [store-implementations](https://github.com/gorilla/sessions#store-implementations) for other options.


This sample demonstrates how to:

- Create a development Namespace in the Kyma runtime.
- Consume the SCP service XSUAA
- Deploy the following Kubernetes resources:
  - API deployment written in GO
  - API Rule
  - Service
  - Secret
  - ServiceBinding
  - ServiceBindingUsage


## Prerequisites

- SAP Cloud Platform, Kyma runtime instance
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- [Go](https://golang.org/doc/install)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) configured to use the `KUBECONFIG` file downloaded from the Kyma runtime

## Steps

### Create XSUAA Service Instance

1. Create a new `dev` Namespace:

```shell script
kubectl create namespace dev
```

2. Within the Kyma console open the namespace `dev`
3. Choose `Service Management` -> `Catalog`.
4. Choose the service `Authorization & Trust Management`
5. Choose `Add`
6. Choose the Plan `application`
7. Choose `Add parameters` and provide the object after adjusting it to your needs.

```json
{
  "oauth2-configuration": {
    "redirect-uris": [
      "https://api-mssql-go-auth.<cluster domain>/oauth/callback",
      "http://localhost:8000/oauth/callback"
    ]
  },
  "xsappname": "go-sample-app-auth"
}
```
<sup> For a complete list of parameters visit [Application Security Descriptor Configuration Syntax](https://help.sap.com/viewer/4505d0bdaf4948449b7f7379d24d0f0d/2.0.04/en-US/6d3ed64092f748cbac691abc5fe52985.html) </sup>

8. Once the instance is provisioned choose the option `Create Credentials`
9. Under the `Credentials` tab choose the `Secret` which should display the instance secret in a dialog. Choose `Decode` to view the values. These will be needed if running the sample locally.

### Run the API locally

1. Set the environment variables required to connect with the database:

```shell script
export MYAPP_username=sa
export MYAPP_password=Yukon900
export MYAPP_database=DemoDB
export MYAPP_host=localhost
export MYAPP_port=1433
```

2. Set the environment variables required to connect with the XSUAA instance which can be found in the `Secret` generated with the service instance:

```shell script
export IDP_clientid='<instance clientid>'
export IDP_clientsecret=<instance clientsecret>
export IDP_url=<instance url>
export IDP_redirect_uri=http://localhost:8000/oauth/callback
export IDP_token_endpoint_auth_method=client_secret_post
export IDP_CookieKey=<a random value used to encode the cookie>
```

1. Run the application:

```shell script
go run ./cmd/api
```

2. Accessible endpoints include
   - http://localhost:8000/user
   - http://localhost:8000/orders

### Build the Docker image

1. Build and push the image to your Docker repository:

```shell script
docker build -t {your-docker-account}/api-mssql-go-auth -f docker/Dockerfile .
docker push {your-docker-account}/api-mssql-go-auth
```

1. To run the image locally either copy the env variables into a file, set them individually, or copy them from your environment:

```shell script
  docker run -p 8000:8000 --env-file ./env.list -d jcawley5/api-mssql-go-auth:latest
  OR
  docker run -p 8000:8000 --env-file <(env | grep 'IDP\|MYAPP') -d jcawley5/api-mssql-go-auth:latest
```

### Deploy the API - MS SQL database example

1. Create a new `dev` Namespace:

```shell script
kubectl create namespace dev
```

2. Within `./k8s/configmap.yaml` adjust the redirect_url and then apply the ConfigMap:

```shell script
kubectl -n dev apply -f ./k8s/configmap.yaml
```

3. Apply the Secret:

```shell script
kubectl -n dev apply -f ./k8s/secret.yaml
```

4. Get the name of the ServiceInstance:

```shell script
kubectl -n dev get serviceinstances
```

For example:

| NAME                   | CLASS                     | PLAN        | STATUS | AGE |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------- | ----------- | ------ | --- |
| ***xsuaa-showy-yard*** | ClusterServiceClass/xsuaa | application | Ready  | 63m |

1. Within `./k8s/deployment.yaml` adjust the value of `<Service Instance Name>` to the XSUAA service instance name and the apply the Deployment:

```shell script
kubectl -n dev apply -f ./k8s/deployment.yaml
```

6. Apply the APIRule:

```shell script
kubectl -n dev apply -f ./k8s/apirule.yaml
```

6. Verify that the Deployment is up and running:

```shell script
kubectl -n dev get deployment api-mssql-go-auth
```

7. Use the APIRule:
  - `https://api-mssql-go-auth.{cluster-domain}/orders`
  - `https://api-mssql-go-auth.{cluster-domain}/orders/10000001`
  - `https://api-mssql-go-auth.{cluster-domain}/user`

Commit message:

adding reverse proxy ui feature

api-mssql-go-auth/README.md, after:

## Overview

## THIS IS A WORK IN PROGRESS!

This sample is an extension to the sample `api-mssql-go` providing a middleware to handle authentication, based on Open ID Connect, which can be configured using XSUAA or SAP IAS. It also provides a reverse proxy feature to serve a static UI. Please refer to the [api-mssql-go](../api-mssql-go/README.md) for specifics. This example implementation is storing sessions using an in memory store which is meant for testing only. See [store-implementations](https://github.com/gorilla/sessions#store-implementations) for other options.


This sample demonstrates how to:

- Create a development Namespace in the Kyma runtime.
- Consume the SCP service XSUAA
- Deploy the following Kubernetes resources:
  - API deployment written in GO
  - API Rule
  - Service
  - Secret
  - ServiceBinding
  - ServiceBindingUsage


## Prerequisites

- SAP Cloud Platform, Kyma runtime instance
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- [Go](https://golang.org/doc/install)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) configured to use the `KUBECONFIG` file downloaded from the Kyma runtime

## Steps

### Create XSUAA Service Instance

1. Create a new `dev` Namespace:

```shell script
kubectl create namespace dev
```

2. Within the Kyma console open the namespace `dev`
3. Choose `Service Management` -> `Catalog`.
4. Choose the service `Authorization & Trust Management`
5. Choose `Add`
6. Choose the Plan `application`
7. Choose `Add parameters` and provide the object after adjusting it to your needs.


```json
{
  "oauth2-configuration": {
    "redirect-uris": [
      "https://ui-auth-proxy.<cluster domain>/oauth/callback",
      "http://localhost:8000/oauth/callback"
    ]
  },
  "xsappname": "ui-auth-proxy"
}
```
<sup> For a complete list of parameters visit [Application Security Descriptor Configuration Syntax](https://help.sap.com/viewer/4505d0bdaf4948449b7f7379d24d0f0d/2.0.04/en-US/6d3ed64092f748cbac691abc5fe52985.html) </sup>

1. Once the instance is provisioned choose the option `Create Credentials`
2. Under the `Credentials` tab choose the `Secret` which should display the instance secret in a dialog. Choose `Decode` to view the values. These will be needed if running the sample locally.

### Run the API locally

1. Set the environment variables required to connect with the database:

```shell script
export MYAPP_username=sa
export MYAPP_password=Yukon900
export MYAPP_database=DemoDB
export MYAPP_host=localhost
export MYAPP_port=1433
```

2. Optionally set the location of the UI which is providing the static sources
  
```shell script
export MYAPP_reverse_proxy_target=<the url of the service>
```

3. Set the environment variables required to connect with the XSUAA instance which can be found in the `Secret` generated with the service instance:

```shell script
export IDP_clientid='<instance clientid>'
export IDP_clientsecret=<instance clientsecret>
export IDP_url=<instance url>
export IDP_redirect_uri=http://localhost:8000/oauth/callback
export IDP_token_endpoint_auth_method=client_secret_post
export IDP_CookieKey=<a random value used to encode the cookie>
```

4. Run the application:

```shell script
go run ./cmd/api
```

5. Accessible endpoints include
   - http://localhost:8000/
   - http://localhost:8000/user
   - http://localhost:8000/orders

### Build the Docker image

1. Build and push the image to your Docker repository:

```shell script
docker build -t {your-docker-account}/api-mssql-go-auth -f docker/Dockerfile .
docker push {your-docker-account}/api-mssql-go-auth
```

1. To run the image locally either copy the env variables into a file, set them individually, or copy them from your environment:

```shell script
  docker run -p 8000:8000 --env-file ./env.list -d jcawley5/api-mssql-go-auth:latest
  OR
  docker run -p 8000:8000 --env-file <(env | grep 'IDP\|MYAPP') -d jcawley5/api-mssql-go-auth:latest
```

### Deploy the API - MS SQL database example

1. Create a new `dev` Namespace:

```shell script
kubectl create namespace dev
```

2. Within `./k8s/configmap.yaml` adjust the redirect_url and then apply the ConfigMap:

```shell script
kubectl -n dev apply -f ./k8s/configmap.yaml
```

3. Apply the Secret:

```shell script
kubectl -n dev apply -f ./k8s/secret.yaml
```

4. Get the name of the ServiceInstance:

```shell script
kubectl -n dev get serviceinstances
```

For example:

| NAME                   | CLASS                     | PLAN        | STATUS | AGE |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------- | ----------- | ------ | --- |
| ***xsuaa-showy-yard*** | ClusterServiceClass/xsuaa | application | Ready  | 63m |

1. Within `./k8s/deployment.yaml` adjust the value of `<Service Instance Name>` to the XSUAA service instance name and the apply the Deployment:

```shell script
kubectl -n dev apply -f ./k8s/deployment.yaml
```

6. Apply the APIRule:

```shell script
kubectl -n dev apply -f ./k8s/apirule.yaml
```

6. Verify that the Deployment is up and running:

```shell script
kubectl -n dev get deployment api-mssql-go-auth
```

7. Use the APIRule:
  - `https://ui-auth-proxy.{cluster-domain}`
